Carbon Nanotubes
 
By Chris Scoville, Robin Cole, Jason Hogg, Omar Farooque, and Archie Russell
 
 
Introduction
 
 
The Amazing and Versatile Carbon 

 
Chemical basis for life
 
With an atomic number of 6, Carbon is the 4th most abundant element in the Universe by 
m
ass after 
(Hydrogen Helium and Oxygen
).  
It forms more compounds that any other element, with almost 10 
million pure organic compounds. Abundance, together with the unique diversity of organic compounds 
and their unusual polymer forming ability at the tem
peratures commonly encountered on Earth makes 
the element the chemical basis of all known life. 
 
 
Carbon Nanotubes
 
Carbon Nanotubes, long, thin cylinders of carbon, were discovered in 1991 by Sumio Iijima. These are 
large macromolecules that are unique for
 
their size, shape, and remarkable physical properties. They 
can be thought of as a sheet of graphite (a hexagonal lattice of carbon) rolled into a cylinder. These 
intriguing structures have sparked much excitement in recent years and a large amount of res
earch has 
been de
dicated to their understanding. 
Currently, the physical properties are still being discovered and 
disputed. Nanotubes have a very broad range of electronic, thermal, and structural properties that 
change depending on the different kinds of
 
nanotube (defined by its diameter, length, and chirality, or 
twist). To make things more interesting, besides having a single cylindrical wall (SWNTs), Nanotubes can 
have multiple walls (MWNTs)
--
cylinders inside the other cylinders. 
 
 
Carbon Nanotubes and
 

 

means that the strategy of ever finer photolithography will have run its course; we have already seen a 
progression from a micron, to 
sub micron to 45 nm scale. Carbon Nanotubes, whose walls are just 1 
atom thick, with diameters of only 1 to 2 nm, seems to be one of the perfect candidates to take us right 

rbon Nanotubes 
has a promising future! 
 
 
Key properties of Carbon Nanotubes
 
Carbon Nanot
ubes are an example of true nanotechnology: they are less than 100 nanometers in 
diameter and 
can be as thin as 
1 or 2 nm. They are molecules that can be manipulated ch
emically and 
physically in very useful ways. They open an incredible range of applications in materials science, 
electronics, chemical processing, energy management, and many other fields. Some 
properties include
 

 
E
xtraordinary electrical conductivit
y, heat conductivity, and mechanical properties. 
 

 
They are probably the best el
ectron field
-
emitter known, largely due to their h
igh 
length
-
to
-
diameter ratio
s
 

 
As pure carbon polymers, they 
can be manipulated using the well
-
known and the treme
ndously 
rich chemistry of 
that element
.
 
 
 
Some of the above properties provide opportunity to modify their structure, and to optimize their 
solubility and dispersion. These extraordinary characteristics give CNTs potential in numerous 
applications. 
 
 
Key a
pplication areas
 
  
   

 
Field Emitters/Emission:
 
     

 
Conductive or reinforced plastics
 
     

 
Molecular electronics: CNT based non volatile RAM
 
     

 
CNT based transistors
 
     

 
Energy Storage
 
     

 
CNT based fibers and fabrics
 
     

 
CNT based 
ceramics
 
     

 
Biomedical applications etc ...
 
 
Timeline References
 
     

 
http://www.answers.com/topic/timeline
-
of
-
carbon
-
nanotubes?cat=technology
 
 
     

 
http://www.pa.msu.edu/cmp/csc/nttimeline.html
 
 
 
Properties of Ca
rbon Nanotubes
 
The structure of a carbon nanotube is formed by a layer of carbon atoms that are bonded together in a 
hexagonal (honeycomb) mesh. This one
-
atom thick layer of carbon is called graphene, and it is wrapped 
in the shape of a cylinder and bonded
 
together to form a carbon nanotube. Nanotubes can have a single 
outer wall of carbon, or they can be made of multiple walls (cylinders inside other cylinders of carbon). 
Carbon nanotubes have a range of electric, thermal, and structural properties that ca
n change based on 
the physical design of the nanotube. 
 
 
Single
-
walled carbon nanotube structure
 
Single
-
walled carbon nanotubes can be formed in three different designs: Armchair, Chiral, and Zigzag. 
The design depends on the way the graphene is wrapped in
to a cylinder. For example, imagine rolling a 
sheet of paper from its corner, which can be considered one design, and a different design can be 
formed by rolling the paper from its edge. A single
-

of indi
ces (n,m) called the chiral vector. The chiral vector is defined in the image below.
 
 
 

s a 
multiple of 3, then the nanotube is 
described as "metallic" 
(highly conducting), otherwise the nanotube 
is a semiconductor. The Armchair design is always metallic while other designs can make the nanotube a 
semiconductor. 
 
 
Multi
-
walled carbon nanotube
 
structure
 
There are two structural models of multi
-
walled nanotubes. In the Russian Doll model, a carbon 
nanotube contains another nano
t
u
b
e inside it (the inner nanotube has a smaller diameter than the 
outer nanotube). In the Parchment model, a single gra
phene sheet is rolled around itself multiple times, 
resembling a rolled up scroll of paper. Multi
-
walled carbon nanotubes have similar properties to single
-
walled nanotubes, yet the outer walls on multi
-
walled nanotubes can protect the inner carbon 
nanotub
es from chemical interactions with outside materials. Multi
-
walled nanotubes also have a higher 
tensile strength than single
-
walled nanotubes [7]. 
 
 
S
trength
 
Carbon nanotubes have a higher tensile strength than steel and Kevlar. Their strength comes from t
he 
sp² bonds between the individual carbon atoms. This bond is even stronger than the sp³ bond found in 
diamond. Under high pressure, individual nanotubes can bond together, trading some sp² bonds for sp³ 
bonds. This gives the possibility of producing long
 
nanotube wires. Carbon nanotubes are not only 
strong, they are also elastic. You can press on the tip of a nanotube and cause it to bend without 
damaging to the nanotube, and the nanotube will return to its original shape when the force is 
removed. A nano
tube's elasticity does have a limit, and under very strong forces, it is possible to 

structure of the nanotube. Defects occur from atomic vacancies or a rear
rangement of the carbon 
bonds. Defects in the structure can cause a small segment of the nanotube to become weaker, which in 
turn causes the tensile strength of the entire nanotube to weaken. The tensile strength of a nanotube 
depends on the strength of th
e weakest segment in the tube similar to the way the strength of a cahin 
depends on the weakest link in the chain. 
 
 
Electrical properties
 
As mentioned previously, the structure of a carbon nanotube determines how conductive the nanotube 
is. When the struc
ture of atoms in a carbon nanotube minimizes the collisions between conduction 
electrons and atoms, a carbon nanotube is highly conductive. The strong bonds between carbon atoms 
also allow carbon nanotubes to withstand higher electric currents than copper.
 
Electron transport 
occurs only along the axis of the tube. Single walled nanotubes can route electrical signals at speeds up 
to 10 GHz when used as interconnects on semi
-
conducting devices. Nanotubes also have a constant 
resistively [10]. 
 
 
Thermal Proper
ties
 
The strength of the atomic bonds in carbon nanotubes allows them to withstand high temperatures. 
Because of this, carbon nanotubes have been shown to be very good thermal conductors. When 
compared to copper wires, which are commonly used as thermal conduct
ors, the carbon nanotubes can 
transmit over 15 times the amount of watts per meter per Kelvin. The thermal conductivity of carbon 
nanotubes is dependent on the temperature of the tubes and the outside environment [10]. 
 
 
Potential Uses
 
There are many potential applications for Carbon nanotubes from waterproof and tear resistant cloth 
fabrics, concrete and steel like applications (a space elevator has even been proposed) based on the 
property of strength, electrical circuits based on the 
property of electrical conductivity, sensors based on 
the property of thermal conductivity, vacuum proof food packaging, and even as a vessel for delivering 
drugs. For the purpose of this paper we are going to focus on the applications related to nano
-
elet
ronics. 
 
 
Nano
-
Electronics 
 
 
One of the most significant potential applications of 
s
ingle
-
walled nanotubes is believed to be in the 
domain of nano
-
electronics. This is as a result of SWNT's being highly
-
conductive
.
 
I
n fact
, according to 
[2] single
-
walled n
anotube ropes are the most conductive carbon fibers known. Alternative 
configurations of a carbon nanotube can result in the resultant material being semi
-
conductive like 
silicon. 
 
 
Conductivity in nanotubes is based on the degree of chirality 

 
i
.
e
.
 
the d
egree of twist and size of the 
diameter of the actual nanotube 
-
 
which results in a nanotube that is actually extremely conductive 
(making it suitable as an interconnect on an integrated circuit) or non
-
conductive (making it suitable as 
the basis for semi
-
conductors). 
 
 
Interconnect 
 
Chip manufacturers require metallic compounds to serve as the basis for interconnects between 
transistors on chips. Up until around seven years ago
 
chip manufacturers used alumin
um at which point 
they switched to copper. Howeve
r copper's resistance to electricity flow increases as the metals 
dimensions decrease, 
creating a lower bound for the size of copper based interconnects. By 2012 [11] it 
is e
x
pected that higher performance chips com
b
ined with more tightly packed transistor
s require 
interconnects less than 40 nanometers wide, at which point copper's resistance will prove to be 
ineffective as an interconnection technology. 
 
 
With high conductivity and small dimensions, c
arbon nanotubes may provide an alternative 
interconnect 
option to copper.
 
 
Toshiba and Stanford University recently published 
results
[3] 
demonstrating a 
CNT
-
based interconnect operating at 1Ghz on a chip containing 11000 transistors on a 
chip the size of 1/100th of a square inch. 
 
 
This 
research 
demonstrates th
at carbon nanotubes are not just a viable alternative to copper, but that 
they can also be used alongside existing IC manufacturing processes. Another advantage to carbon 
nanotubes is that unlike copper there is no need to embed the interconnects int
o tren
ches on the circuit 
board, which could 
make 
for a simpler 
manufacturing 
process
. 
 
 
Transistor
s
 
 
Transistors form the basis for modern integrated circuits functioning as digital switches. Alternative 
configurations of carbon
-
nanotubes result in defects bein
g present that allow single walled nanotubes 
to act as transistors. Nano
tube based switches 
the size of an individual electron had been envisioned but 
had originally required cryogenic like temperatures. 
 
 
In such a switch a molecule can be positioned insi
de a carbon nanotube to affect the electronic current 
flowing across it. The result is a molecular
-
scare gate in which the position of the molecule controls the 
flow of the electrical current. In this model, the gate is about one nanometer in size, or thre
e orders of 
magnitude smaller than a silicon chip. In 2001 researchers [4] demonstrated that 
nanotube transistors 
could be realized that would operate at room temperature. IBM has also demonstrated fabrication of 
nanotube transistors [5]. 
 
 
Energy Producti
on and Storage
 
Carbon Nanotube technology also holds promise for a wide range of energy
-
related applications. 
 
 
Batteries
 
Mo
st portable electronic devices 
use rechargeable lithium
-
ion batteries. These batteries release charge 
when lithium ions move between
 
two electrodes 
-
 
one of which is graphite and the other is metal oxide. 
Researchers at the University of North Carolina [9] have demonstrated that by replacing the graphite 
with SWCNT
s
 
they can 
double storage capacity.
 
 
Electrodes made of carbon nanotubes
 
can be ten times thinner and lighter than amorphous carbon 
electrodes and their conductivity is more than one thousan
d times greater. In some cases, such as 
electric vehicles
, the reduction in weight can make a significant reduction in 
battery 
power 
requirements. Carbon nanotubes have been used in supercapacitors producing a power density of 
30kw/kg (compared to 4kw/kg for commercially available devices). Such supercapacitors could 
drastically reduce the time it takes to recharge devices such as
 
laptops and cell phones. 
 
 
Ultra
-
thin flexible batteries have been made with CNT infused paper [13]. Ionic liquid is soaked into the 
paper as the battery's electrolyte. Electrolytes in human blood, sweat, and urine can also help to power 
the battery which
 
may be useful in implantable medical devices. These batteries can be rolled, folded, or 
cut without loss of efficiency. They can also be stacked to boost their output power. Although the 
materials used in the batteries, which are over 90% cellulose, are v
ery inexpensive 
an inexpensive 
method of mass
-
production has not yet been developed. 
 
 
Solar Cells
 
Researchers at Georgia Tech Research Institute [14] have created solar cells consisting of 100
-
micrometer
-
high towers built of CNTs grown on iron
-
coated sili
con wafers. There are 40,000 of these 
towers in each square centimeter of the surface; Each tower is an array of millions of vertically aligned 
CNTs. These cells absorb more light as it reflects off the sides of the towers. Unlike typical solar cells that 
have peak efficiency when the sun is at 90º, these cells have two peaks at 45° and operate with 
relatively high efficiency during most of the day. This makes them particularly appropriate for 
applications in space because it eliminates the requirement of h
aving a mechanical means of orienting 
the cells to face the sun. 
 
 
Current hurdles
 
 
There 
are several remaining obstacles, technical and non
-
technical 
to CNT success.   Covering these in 
detail is 
length and probably impossible;  
flipped on its head,  such
 
a passage would be a path to success 
with nanotubes
!  B
ut here are a couple of the major impediments.
 
 
Electronic Heterogeneity
 
One problem with nanotube production 
for electronics 
is that batches of nanotubes are heterogeneous 
mixtur
es of metallic and se
miconducting tube types
. 
 
Electrical d
evices typically 
require 
these types
 
to 
be separated
, but so far it has been difficult to tune production in this regard
 
[6]
.
  
There also remain 
issues with doping, or tuning conductivity, and electrical behavior at co
ntact points. (Rogers, UIUC).
 
 
Orientation
 
A problem with nanotubes where recent progress has been made is controlling their orientation. 
Nanotubes are commonly grown in a chaotic organization (
affectionately known as 
a "rat's nest")
,
 
which 
are difficult t
o use in microprocessors. Recently John Rogers and his team at the University of Illinois, 
Urbana Champagne, discovered that carefully growing nanotubes on quartz wafers can lead to a highly 
organized configuration. 
 
 
Size and Dens
i
ty
 
The size of manufactu
red nanotubes typically varies widely. For commercial use, nanotube 
manufacturers will need to make size more consistent
 
[6]
. 
  
Though nanotubes are very narrow, 
nanotube 
matrices 
typically have quite large (100nm) spacing between tubes. 
 
 
Export Policy
 
As
 
with other multi
-
use technologies, nanotubes may be subject to export controls. Finding information 
about this was difficult, multiple sources were unaware of restrictions but in at least one case a foreign 
researcher was denied access to nanotubes. Adeli
na Santos, a Brazilian nuclear scientist, says a U.S. 
based supplier refused to ship him nanotubes due to federal regulations. However, restrictions seem 
diff
icult to enforce; Santos had a 
friend smuggle a gram of nanotubes to him
 
Current customs protocols
 
probably do not place a priority on detecting nanotubes.
[20]
 
 
Export restrictions could slow adoption of nanotube technologies and prevent standardization. 
Regulation of commerce in nanotube technology will increase costs. 
 
 
 
 
Environmental concerns
 
The 
environmental risks of nanotubes are still unclear
[6]
. Naturally occurring carbon is fairly 
benign, 
and is largely unregulated, but 
nanot
ubes 
interact with the environment differently
. 
There have been several studies performed to test the effects of car
bon nanotubes on living 
systems
. 
 

 
Fruit fly larvae fed a diet containing nanotubes appeared to develop normally.
[7]
 
 

 
One study showed that CNTs delay embryo development in zebrafish, 
but
 
the fish otherwise 
appeared normal.
[8]
. 
 

 
Mice lungs became inflamed when exposed to nanotubes. Though the inflammation subsided 
within a 
few months, this has stark parallels to the affect of asbestos on human lungs.
[9]
. 
 

 
Some human tumor cells seem to prolifer
ate more rapidly in the presence of nanotubes
[10]
. 
 
In some situations, coatings applied to the nanotubes, rather than the nanotubes themselves, 
may become environmental culprits.   The solar cells described earlier are coated with a 
cadmium
-
telluride mix, which would be too toxic for
 
widespread use.   Perhaps most sobering 
to consider is that some forms of nanotubes biodegrade slowly, tubes released into the 
environment may make their way into our food supply, and from there, throughout our bodies.   
Some researchers believe that nano
tube use in electronics is probably not very risky because of 
the small volumes involved, but this argument hinges on computing being limited to small 
numbers of devices. 
 
Some are pushing for more investigation 
and regulation. One possibility is treating 
nanotubes as a new chemical, rather than 
as an isoform of Carbon.  Another approach 
is to adjust regulations on toxic exposures 
to take into account the 
number of particles
 
in an exposure or their surface area, as 
opposed to the mass.
[
12]
. 
 
However, there is a silver lining.   CNTs also 
hold promise for cleaning up polluted 
environments. Nanotubes are very 
effective at absorbing chemicals from their 
surroundings and have possible 
applications in water filtration and in air 
filters, such
 
as smokestacks.
[11]
 
Figure 
1
:  
Pathways after CNT inhalation (A 
Jain, 
Nanotoxicology)
 
Entrenched dominance
 
The single biggest hurdle to nanotube success in 
integrated circuits 
is the continued success of
 
s
ilicon
-
based devices. Nanotubes have some outstanding properties, but exploiting these 
properties to build robust chips could prove very difficult. One company, Nantero, received 
funding in 2001 for a nanotube
-
based RAM (NRAM) product. At the time, NRAM 
promised to 
be better than DRAM in several dimensions, but, seven years later they don't have a product or 
even a vague timeline for when something might be available. By the time a product is 
released, if ever, NRAMs advantages will undoubtedly have dimin
ished. Competing with silicon 
apples
-
to
-
apples has been the downfall of other promising materials technologies; CNT 
nanofabrics
, which use a design paradigm that considers defects in nanomaterials to be the 
norm rather than the exception, hold considerable promise, but nanotube
-
based products will 
probably find their first successes in 
specialized applications such as interconnect
. 
 
Fabrication
 
 
The furtherment of fabrication technology will require the ability to target nanotubes with high yield of 
specified lengths, diameter, number of walls, and chirality. There are several procedures that have been 
developed for fabricating CNT
 
structures. In this section, we give an overview of a few of them. 
 
 
Arc Discharge Method
 
A chamber containing a graphite cathode and anode contains evaportated carbon molecules in a buffer 
gas such as helium. The chamber also contains some amount of meta
l catalyst particles (such as cobalt, 
nickel, and/or iron). DC current is passed through the chamber while the chamber is also pressurized 
and heated to ~4000K. In the course of this procedure, about half of the evaporated carbon solidifies on 
the cathode 
tip into a "cylindrical hard deposit." The remaining carbon condenses into "chamber soot" 
around the walls of the chamber and "cathode soot" on the cathode. 
 
 
The cathode soot and chamber soot yield either single
-
walled or multi
-
walled carbon nanotubes. Th
e 
cylindrical hard deposit doesn't yield anything particularly interesting. 
 
 
The choice of buffer gas, the pressure of the chamber, and the metallic catalyst added to the chamber. 
Apparently the nanotubes grow from the surfaces of the metallic catalyst pa
rticles. These choices 
determine the shape and whether they are single
-
 
or multi
-
walled. 
 
 
The advantage of this method is that it produces a large quantity of nanotubes. But the main 
disadvantage is that there is relatively little control over the alignment (i.e. chirality) of the produced 
nanotubes, which is critical to their characterization 
and role. Furthermore, due to the metallic catalyst 
included in the reaction, the products need to be purified afterwards. Methods such as oxidation, 
centrifugation, filtration, and acid treatment have been used. 
 
 
Laser Ablation Method
 
A quartz tube conta
ining a block of graphite is heated in a furnace. A flow of argon gas is maintained 
throughout the reaction. A laser is used to vaporize the graphite within the quartz. The carbon 
vaporizes, is carried away by the argon, and condenses downstream on the coo
ler walls of the quartz. 
This condensation is SWNT and metallic particles. Thereafter, purification methods are applied to this 
mixture. 
 
 
The key to the proper formation of the condensed nanotubes is that the location where the carbon 
atoms begin to conde
nse should be set up as a curved sheet of graphene with a catalyst metallic atom 
nearby. As carbon atoms begin to attach and form rings, the metallic atom, if it has the proper 
electonegativity properties, will preserve the open edge of the tube and preven
t it from drawing to a 
close. The authors of the paper describe this phenomenon as the "scooter" effect, because the metallic 
atom "scoots" around the open edge, preventing it from closing. 
 
 
The large atom in this figure is the "scooting" metallic atom 
 
 
Advantages of this technique include a relatively high yield and relatively low metallic impurities, since 
the metallic ato
ms involved tend to evaporate from the end of the tube once it is closed. One 
disadvantage is that the nanotubes produced from this method are not necessarily uniformly straight, 
but instead do contain some branching. 
 
 
Chemical Vapor Deposition
 
The CVD ap
proach allows CNTs to grow on a variety of materials, which makes it more viable to 
integrate into already existent processes for synthesizing electronics. This process involves the chemical 
breakdown of a hydrocarbon on a substrate. 
 
 
It's already been sh
own in previous methods, such as the arc discharge method, that a main way to 
grow carbon nanotubes is by exciting carbon atoms that are in contact with metallic catalyst particles. 
 
The CVD method extends this idea by embedding these metallic particles (i
ron, in the case of the 
seminal paper) in properly aligned holes in a substrate (silicon, in this case). Essentially, tubes are drilled 
into silicon and implanted with iron nanoparticles at the bottom. Then, a hydrocarbon such as acetylene 
is heated and de
composed onto the substrate. The carbon comes into contact with the metal particles 
embedded in the holes and start to form nanotubes that are "templated" from the shape of the tunnel. 
It turns out that the carbon nanotubes grow very long and very well ali
gned, in the angle of the tunnel. 
 
 
The advantages of this method are that the yield is very high, the alignment of the nanotubes is 
consistent (whic
h is crucial for creating particular types of nanotubes, e.g. semiconductor or metallic), 
and the size of the growth area is theoretically arbitrary. 
 
 
The main disadvantage is that, though the size of the growth area is basically arbitrary, large sized ar
eas 
(several millimeters) tend to crack, shrink, and otherwise warp. The substrates need to be dried very 
thoroughly to prevent against this. 
 
 
n
-
hexane Pyrolysis
 
Researchers developed a method to synthesize large, long single walled nanotube bundles in a 
vertical 
furnace by pyrolyzing hexane molecules. These n
-
hexane molecules are mixed with certain other 
chemicals that have been shown independently to help with growth of nanotubes. These are burned 
(pyrolyzed) at a very high temperature in a flow of hydro
gen and other optional gases. According to the 
paper, using a different hydrocarbon or using a different gas prevented the formation of long 
nanotubes. 
 
 
The primary advantage of this method is that it produces macroscopic nanotube bundles 
("microtubes"): 
their diameters are typically larger than that of human hair, and their length is several 
centimeters. The disadvantage is that the alignment is not as produced from other methods, making it 
viable for creating "microcables", but not nanotubes with precise
 
electrical properties. Another 
disadvantage is that from the researchers' measurements, the elasticity of these nanotube bundles is 
not as great as hoped (i.e. they are more brittle). 
 
 
Conclusion
 
There is much about carbon nanotubes that is still unknown
. More research needs to be done regarding 
the environmental and health impacts of producing large quantities of them. There is also much work to 
be done towards cheaper mass
-
production and incorporation with other materials before many of the 
current appl
ications being researched can be commercialized. There is no doubt however that carbon 
nanotubes will play a significant role in a wide range of commercial applications in the very near future. 
Not only will they help create some very cool tech gadgets, th
ey may also help solve the world's energy 
problems. 
 
 
 
References 
 
[1] 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SWNT#Single
-
walled
 
 
[2] CheapTubes.com CNT 101 Presentation (2008, April 24). In 
http://www.cheaptubesinc.com/cnt101.htm
 
 
[3] A 1 GHz Integrated Circuit with Carbon Nanotube Int
erconnects and Silicon Transistors 
-
 
http://nano.stanford.edu/publication.php?id=135
 
 
[4] Carbon Nanotube Single
-
Electron Transistors at Room
 
Temperature. By Henk W. Ch. Postma, Tijs 
Teepen, Zhen Yao,* Milena Grifoni, Cees Dekker 
http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/
full/293/5527/76
 
 
[5] Nanotube Field Effect Transistor 
-
 
http://www.research.ibm.com/nanoscience/fet.html
 
 
[6] (Future Of Computing: Carbon
 
Nanotubes And Superconductors To Replace The Silicon Chip. 
ScienceDaily.) 
 
[7] Carbon nanotube. (2008, April 24). In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 03:04, April 28, 
2008, from 
http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carbon_nanotube&oldid=207910667
 
 
[8] Graphene. (2008, April 27). In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 0
3:01, April 28, 2008, 
from 
http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Graphene&oldid=208624307
 
 
[9] Nano
tubes pack power. 
http://www.trnmag.com/Stories/2002/022702/Nanotubes_pack_power_022702
.html
 
 
[10] Physical properties of carbon nanotubes. 
http://www.pa.msu.edu/cmp/csc/ntproperties/
 
 
[11] Carbon
-
Nanotube Wiring Gets Real. IEEE 
-
 
Spect
rum 04.08. 
http://blogs.spectrum.ieee.org/articles/2008/03/carbonnano
tube_wiring_gets_rea.html
 
 
[12] Nanotubes and their implications for computing. 
http://www.
rpi.edu/dept/phys/ScIT/FutureTechnologies/nano/nanotubes.html
 
 
[13] Carbon Nanotube Based NanoComposite Paper Energy Storage May Replace Batteries 
-
 
http://www.azonano.com/news.asp?newsID=4710
 
 
[14] Nano
-
Manhattan: 3D Solar Cells Boost Efficiency While Reducing Size, Weight and Complexity of 
Photovoltaic Arrays 
-
 
http://www.gtri.gatech.edu/casestudy/3d
-
solar
-
cells
-
boost
-
efficiency
 
 
[15] S. lijima, Nature 354, 56 (1991). 
 
[16] Crystalline Ropes of Metallic Carbon Nanotubes. Science, New Series, Vol. 
273, No. 5274 (Jul. 26, 
1996), pp. 483
-
487 
 
[17] Large
-
Scale Synthesis of Aligned Carbon Nanotubes. W. Z. Li, S. S. Xie, * L. X. Qian, B. H. Chang, B. S. 
Zou, W. Y. Zhou, R. A. Zhao, G. Wang 
 
[18] T. W. Ebbesen and P. M. Ajayan, Nature 358, 220 (1992); D. 
T. Colbert etal., Science 266,1218 
(1994). 
 
[19] Direct Synthesis of Long Single
-
Walled Carbon Nanotube StrandsDirect Synthesis of Long Single
-
Walled Carbon Nanotube Strands. H. W. Zhu, C. L. Xu, D. H. Wu, B. Q. Wei, R. Vajtai, P. M. Ajayan 
 
Retrieved from
 
"
http://cubist.cs.washington.edu/wiki/index.php/Csep590a
-
c
"
 
[20] 
BRAZIL: Warning 
-
 
Th
ese Computers Come With Strings Attached 
http://www.ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=39480
 
